<!DOCTYPE html>
<html>

  <h1>
    <a href="./index.html">Creaturetopia</a>
  </h1>

  <h3>The Idea</h3>
  <p>Back in late 2010 I had been playing multiple virtual animal games for several years. I enjoyed many of them greatly and decided I wanted to create my own.</p>
  <p>There were three sites that I enjoyed playing most, all of which were created, and origionally run, by the same person. These were <a href="http://www.kittentracks.com">Kitten tracks</a> (which is now closed), Horse Mogul (no longer existing), and <a href="http://www.animalacres.net/home">Aniaml Acres</a>. All these games were primarily text based, with no moving images or fancy graphics, but they had fairly large cative communities, and I decided to make my own game similar to these.</p>
  <p>After deciding this I Googled 'how to create a virtual animal game' and happend upon a <a href="https://www.wikihow.com/Make-a-Virtual-Pet-Site">wikiHow page</a> (it has been updated since). The first thing it said was that you should not create one if you haven't been able to find one that quite fits what you want yet, so you want to make it, as these always fail. Instead you should create one that has it's own things that you want, but keeps many of the things other virtual animal site include.</p>
  <p>This sounded perfect, but it did make me question "What will be special about my site? How will it be differnt?" I thought of why I played animal games, and what I enjoyed about them. I enjoyed interacting with the other players, certainly, but that wasn't what had drawn me to such games in the first place. Finally I realised: having a person with pet allergies in the house meant there were many I couldn't own. Plus, they cost alot of money, which also put many out of the question. What was going to be differnet about my site? I was going to make a site that allowed you to own mythical animals. Perhaps, in the future, players would even be able to come up with their own breeds and species!</p>
  <h3>Learning Code</h3>
  </p>The next thing the wikiHow page said to do was learn a programming language such as Pearl. The other sites that I was basing mine on used PHP, according to the fine print at the bottom, and web addresses.</p>
  <p>wikiHow said it is a good idea to have a basic idea of HTML, CSS, and JavaScript first. I had no idea what these were, but Googled 'Learn HTML free online', and came acroos <a href="https://www.w3schools.com">w3schools</a>. Lucky for me it had courses in HTML, CSS, JavaScript, and PHP. HTML and CSS were in their own section together, so I decided to start with them.  </p>
  <p>Over the last few months of 2010, and the first month of 2011, I learnt a little of HTML and CSS. I decided I would call my site Creaturetopia. I decided it's tile colour would be orange, and it's main background colour a light green, with maybe some darker greens as well. I created a homepage and rule page basic mock-up (both of which are long since gone). The one line I did remeber from my homepage and have kept as can be seen on my own site is "Doesn't exist? Not a problem!" which can be seen on my <a href="https://tinystep1.github.io/Creaturetopia/">current homepage</a> on GitHub.</p>
  <h3>The Dreaded Backburner</h3>
  <p>At this time (2011) I was enterning year 10, and starting to think about what courses I wanted to do for my senior year. In year 10, as many people - especially Australian's as that's the country I lived in (and still do) - are aware, you are given about a week to get back into the school routine with a little homework, course overviews, and such, and still time to do your own things. Then comes week two and within a day you will be slapped with about 3 assignments.</p>
  <p>As I had always been pushed to put my education first, above all else, and the workload had increased so much, I unfortunately had to put my coding studies on hold, to hopefully come back to after I'd finished High School.</p>
  <p>I finished High School in 2014, and applied to a few universities offering creative writing courses (another interest of mine), and coding courses. Of all those I applied for, I could only get in through a bridging course, so I decided to leave it for a year or two a get a job around home. Looking for work though, expecially in a low employment area, and even more so with the limited work experience of a High School student, proved to be a full time job. All my free time was put into resume updating, cover letter writing, aplying for job openings, handing in resumes at any business in town, drivng practice, and upskilling for desirable skills in all industries, and High School education level jobs in industries I was interested in. My dream of running my own virtual animal game was all, but forgotten...until 2019.</p>
  <h3>2Pi Software</h3>
  <p>In August one evening I attended a meeting about climate chnage.</p>
  <p>On my walk back to the car I started talking to one the other people who had been there. She asked me if I was interested in coding. This sparked the memory of the game I had wanted to create back in High School, and I eagerly replied that I was. She told me that 2Pi was looking for more women interested in coding, and tlod me where the office was, and that I should go see them.</p>
  <p>I happened to be in town the very next day. As I was eating lunch, I looked across the street. It just so happened that I was directly across the street from the office, and spotted the door saying 2Pi Software.</p>
  <p>When I had finished eating, I had some time before my next appointment, and went straight over to 2Pi Software. I told the people I spoke to in there what I had been told, that they were looking for more women interested in coding, and I was interested. They didn't have a lot of time that day, but they told me about a game programming course that they ran at the UOW (University Of Wollongong) campus each Wednesday, and the Networking night they had on the first Thursday of each month. They also arranged for me to come talk to them at the office each Tuesday at 12 so they could learn where I was at in terms of coding, and what I might need help with.</p>
  <p>I attended one of the game coding sessions to see if it would be helpful for me. I could see from the others work that I was no where near that level yet. However, I was introduced to <a href="https://www.codecademy.com/login">Code Academy</a> and <a href="https://www.freecodecamp.org">freeCodeCamp.com</a> where I could continue learning HTML and CSS, and also learn JavaScript and PHP.</p>
  </p>During the rest of the week I went on freeCodeCamp, and also back to w3Schools, and started to learn HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.</p>
  <h3>The Plan</h3>
  <p>At my next meeting at 2Pi Software, I explained why I wanted to learn coding, and PHP programming specifically. I was told that it was a good skill to have also as it will open up more avenues of work for me. I could even get a job at 2Pi Software in the future, as PHP is the programming their systems use.</p>
  <p>We then went in to talk more in depth about how I might create this game, and came up with a four step plan:</p>
  <ol>
    <li>I would continue to learn HTML, CSS, and JavaScript. I would also familiarise myself with the sites Github, Vcode, and JSFiddle.</li>
    <li>Once I was competent in all these, I could create a very simplified version of the game. This would involve one animal only. There would be no login or saving. A person could play with that animal for that session only.</li>
    <li>I would then start learning PHP. I would also learn what I could about servers, and databases, as I would need both for the finished game.</li>
    <li>Finally I would set up a database and allow people to create an account, which will save their game. Then I would start adding more animals, and the other features the game would have over time as updates.</li>
  </ol>
  <p>I continued learning front end code on w3Schools, and freeCodeCamp, and also started it on Code Academy. I also watched a youtube video on HTML. I started to learn how to use JSFiddle, and during one of my meetings at 2Pi Software, I was told that I could use it to crete a mock-up of the homepage of my website. I was also shown how to see the code for a website, and told I can use the code of the virtual animal game that is still working that I am basing mine on for ideas.</p>
  <h3>RET Course</h3>
  <p>During the month of October 2Pi Software was running a course designed to get you IT job ready. It was a free course, so I decided to attend.</p>
  <p>The first day we were taught how to use Github. I had already had some experince with this before, but I had not yet heard of Gitkraken, which we were to use in conjunction with it. We were told that we would use these to create a project of our choosing, which we would work on for the duration of the course. We could then use this to showcase our skills to a potential employer. We would also be able to meet with 2Pi Software once a week or once a fortnight after the course was over to continue working on our project. I chose to use my virtual aniaml game as my project.</p>
  <p>The next lesson we looked at front end development, and used freeCodeCamp to teach ourselves HTML and CSS. I continued on with the course from where I was up to.</p>
  <p>All the while I was adding to my websites homepage on JSFiddle, which we had also been taught the day beofre. Periodically I was commiting the changes to GitKraken, and pushing them to GitHub.</p>
  <p>Another lesson we learnt about databases, and the SQL language they use. I knew this was one of the things I would need for my site, and so started studying SQL on the link to w3Schools that we were given during the lesson.</p>
  <p>In other lessons we looked at unity and other forms of game design, 3D printing, and emotional intelligence.</p>
  <p>We also had a lesson where we dowloaded AMPPS to put the code from our game in. We were taught a bit about how to use it to edit our projects. Unfortunately I was on a mac computer, and there hasn't been a Mac update for AMPPS in over a decade. As a result I had to dowload XAMPPS instead. It supports many of the same platforms and apps, but as everyone else was using a different program, I am behind in learning how to use mine.</p>
  <p>In our first self-learning lesson, which is for us to work on our projects, and get help if we need it, I was well into working on some of my pages that connected to my homepage. It was suggeted to me that I find a color palatte online, as the colours I was using at the time were a bit glaring for some people.</p>
  <p>I had finished my <a href="./petinfo-dragon.html">petinfo-dragon</a> page and pushed it to GitHub. It was then suggested that I move the information of the species to JavaScript, and just have placeholder text in the HTML. Then I would be able to use the HTML and CSS as a layout for all my animal information pages for each of my species.</p>
  <p>That day it was mentioned to the class that we could also use Code Academy and w3Schools to learn code for free.</p>
  <p>In the lesson on the 17th we learnt about <a href="https://wordpress.org">Wordpress.org</a>, and how we can download it into AMPPS (or in my case XAMPPS), and use it to help structure our website.</p>
  <p>The nest lesson was a self-learning lesson. I got some support to get all my JavaScipt information for'Dragon' displayig, which can now be seen on my site (link above in 'Learning Code' section).</p>
  <p>I have also dowloaded Wordpress.org to XAMPP, and have been reading through the information on it. I don't know that it will be useful to my website yet.</p>
  <p>I have dowloaded VSCode, and have set it up so any changes I make in it transfer straight to my site using the XAMPP app. It will also automatically add the changes to Gitkraken and allow me to push these staright to Github without having to copy and paste as before with JSFiddle. Any changes that I was previously seeing using JSFiddle I can now see by visiting the local host page connected to my XAMPPS lamp:htdocs folder.</p>
  <p>Because I have yet to add php and a database (that is some ditance away), we are looking at a work around for the animals. There is an error when I access it via my local host page that we are having toruble finding. JSFiddle, however, will tell us what it was looking for when it found the error. I am going to copy my HTML for pet info, CSS, and JavaScript into a blank fiddle to find and resolve the problem, before copying it back, and pushing to Github.</p>
  <p>I am still working through the HTML and HTML5 section of the Basic Web Design Certification on freeCodeCamp.com. As I do so, I am making changes to, and adding pages to my site. Today I turned the textboxes in my <a href="./registration-page.html">Registration Page</a> into a proper of, and made most of the textboxes 'required'. I also added a checkbox to say users have read and agree to the Privacy Policy and Terms and Conditions (pages yet to be created), and set it to be checked by default.</p>
  <p>I fixed the issue I was having with displaying the animal information (and the correct anmial information) on the <a href="./petinfo.html">Pet Info</a> page. I am planning to change the practice button "cat" to "Gryphon", and add some information for that species. For my Github project, these will be the only two species. I will add more as I continue to create the actual website.</p>
  <p>I am working through some of the JavaScript lessons in freeCodeCamp. To practice my skills with objects, I will create an     <a href="./animal-reference.js">animal and species JavaScript reference page</a>, that will not have links on my actual or GutHub site. Instead it will store useful data that I may use in the future.</p>
  <p>It has been suggested that I include the information on the <a href="./animal-reference.js">animal and species reference page</a> I was creating previously in my <a href="./petinfo.html">pet info page</a>. I will have to add more information, and either add more HTML to my pet info page for it to go in (along with all the same I have in my other JavaScript for displayng the correct animl info), or create a seperate page for species with a link on the pet info page. This seems like a more interesting options, as I can find and add example pictures of each species if I can find them, or see if I can find someone who will make one for me when it comes to my actual game (I will still need to add something for displaying the correct javaScript if I make a new page).</p>
  <p>I have created the base HTML page for my <a href="./animal-reference.html">species list</a> for my animals. I have also added links to return to the main menu pages, being the <a href="./idex.html">site home page</a> and the player home page (which does not exist as of yet and won't in the Github version).</p>
  <p>This has now been usurped and is continued in Creatretopia 2. That project will be code viewing only as it will include php.</p>
  <p>
  </p>
  <p>
    <b>Note:</b>
  Due to a mistake I made on my computer when creating the new repository (see 'RET Course' above), a new folder was created in this repository with all my files in it. This caused my GitHub Pages website to stop working. For when the most recent 
  <i>code</i>
  change was made in this repository see the folder 
    <a href="https://github.com/Tinystep1/Creaturetopia/tree/master/CT%20example">CT example</a>
   and click on the relevant peice of code. This does not include the README.md document (this document). The date in the copy in the main part of the repository for the last commit should be correct: 21st November 2019).</p>
</html>
